Now what if I wanted to make a pile of books.
Well I'm going to go ahead and drag this up so it's sitting on the grid like so I can press the three
key again and the five key to look at this and see if it's sitting right on the grid or not.
There we go and I'll press the five key again.
Now to duplicate it I can press shift D and now I'm going to move the mouse and I can move the mouse
here and then left click to confirm the operation like so.
And I'll move it down so it's sitting on the book there.
I can also press the R key and rotate it.
Now it's rotating and kind of a strange way here I can press the Z key and now it will only rotate around
the z axis.
Maybe I can press shift D again and click and then drag up with the move tool.
Maybe I could scale in with the S.
Bring it down so it is sitting on that book.
I could press R and Z and rotate it a bit and then we have the beginnings of a pile of books.
Now one thing I feel I should mention right up front here is this 3D cursor the 3D cursor is a great
tool it's a little different than just about any other program out there.
I'm selecting the objects in the scene with my right mouse button and if I click outside of these objects
with the left mouse button I'll move that little red circle around everywhere I click.
Now this is the 3D cursor and it allows you to move and snap pivot points origins and objects to it.
So you can snap it to an object and then snap another object to it.
Or you can snap a pivot point or an origin of an object.
So let me give you an example here.
Let's say I was going to duplicate this book and lay it down at an angle against this pile of books.
So I'm going to go ahead and select that book and press shift D and then I'm going to click and I'm
going to drag this out like this.
Now what I want to be able to do is rotate the book at the spine.
If I rotated from this point let me switch to my rotate tool if I switch from this point that spine
moves out away from the books.
I'd like to keep it right there.
That's where I want the spine to be.
I just want it to rotate down.
So what I can do is actually tab into edit mode and I'm already in face mode and I'll select that face.
And now I can snap that cursor to the face so I'll press shift.
As for the snap tools and then choose cursor to selected and the cursor snaps to the center of that
face.
Now that the cursor is there I can go back to object mode.
And one of the great things about Blendr is that you can move and place the pivot point separately from
the origin of the object.
For many programs I'd have to move the origin of this object to there to be able to rotate around this
point.
But for Blendr I can come down here to the pivot point menu and change the pivot point of the object
to the 3D cursor.
Now see the origin is still here.
That's great but the pivot point where it rotates from has moved to where the 3D cursor is.
So now I can take that and I can rotate it down at this point like that.
So that gives you a lot of power.
A lot of control over how you scale and rotate objects.
All right.
So I'll go ahead and come back to this pivot point menu and change to medium point.
That's the default setting.
And now that I don't need that pivot point anymore I can press shift s and snap the cursor to the center
of the grid.
Now if your cursor is ever out here on your way out on one end of the scene or something like that you
can always press shift.
See and that will center the cursor and frame up everything in your scene.
All right so I have a pile of books here.
What I'd like to do is create a table for them to do that.
I'll go ahead and begin on a new layer so I'll click right here to select a new layer.
The objects in Layer 1 go away and I've got a clean new layer here.
Now I can always go back to it but I'm going to work here so I don't have any objects in my way as I
create the table.
I'm thinking that it's going to be a little table that would go at the side of a couch or something
like that.
So let's come over here to the Create tab and click on cube.
And what I'd like to do is scale this up so I press the s key and drag the mouse out about like this.
Now this is going to be the top of the table so I'd like it to be thinner than this.
So there are two ways I can do that one.
I can go to the scale tool and click and drag on the z axis or another way is I can press the s key
and then the Z key to control the scale to the z axis.
Either one is fine.
So I'll go with that.
And I'll move this up to about here.
So that's the top of my table.
Currently I'm pivoting around the center of the grid.
What I'd like to do is pivot around this table to do that.
I can press the period key on the number pad and that will zoom in to the selected object and also frame
it up.
So now I'll tab into edit mode select the face at the bottom here and I want to drag a piece down an
in set piece where the legs will fit into.
So press the e key and then I'll click and then I'll press the s key and I'll scale in a bit and then
once again I'll press C and I'll drag straight down with the mouse and then I'll press the and click
press asked for scale and scale this in a bit and then once again I'll press the end drag straight up
to insert underneath the table now if I pull too far it'll come up out of the top of the table.
I just want to bring it up a little bit underneath here.
And there we go there is the beginnings of our table.
So now I want to put legs in the table.
Alt-Tab back into object mode.
And so I can stay organized I better come over here and call this table top something like that just
so I can stay organized I should go back and name all of these book objects as well.
But for now let's go ahead and keep working on the table to create a table leg.
Use another cube and for this I think I'll scale it down just a little bit so it's not quite as thick
and I'll also come over here to the scaled tool and dragged that up in the Z-axis now I need to be able
to see where I'm placing these and how tall they are.
One method I like is the quad view panel you can press control alt Q and see your scene from four different
viewpoints so you have the standard perspective window that we've been using over here.
And then you've got the right front and top cameras.
Now I also like to work in wireframe when I've got the four views here so when I pressed the Z key so
I can see in wireframe.
Now I can see if I come over here to the move tool I can see that I can drag this up.
Maybe it's still a little too tall so I'll press S and Z and scale this down a bit.
I like that and I'll press the G key in the side view here and just move it to where it needs to be.
Now you can see although I've moved it to the side of the table here it isn't yet in the corner.
You can see it up here in the top view.
So I can drag it over in the top view and line it up with one of the corners I'll hit Z again so he
can see it.
And there you are.
I'll toggle back into wireframe with a Z key again.
And now that this is in place we can just press shift D and drag over to the other corner here.
Now I can shift select this one so those selected I'll press shift d to duplicate click to confirm the
tool and then I'll just use the Move manipulator to drag these over to the other corners.
And then we have it a table or press control alt cue again to get back to the perspective view.
Press the Z key to go to shaded view again and there we have it.
Now currently it's all individual pieces.
I think we should combine all of these into one object.
So to do that I'm going to select all the pieces with shift's select and then press control J to combine
them.
Now our object here is the table top still depending on the order of selection.
This name may have changed so you may have to rename this back to table top but now what I'd like to
do is to place this in the scene better.
I'd like the pivot point to be at the bottom center of the object.
And since I've been modeling my object in the center of the grid here the 3D cursor is at a perfect
point to do this.
So with the 3D cursor in the center of the scene and if it isn't remember you can press shift s and
then cursor to center.
I'm going to come over to the tools tab and click the set origin pull down menu and now I can set the
origin to the 3D cursor.
And now this object will move at this point.
I can even rotate it all press the Archey and rotate it around that point.
So I'll do this.
So the 3D cursor is really handy for moving origins and moving pivot points.